hey everybody thanks for checking out my
latest effort this is La Soul Montgomery
the China history podcast and China
vintage hour in this latest podcast
program i'm making good on this idea
ahead years ago like most learners of
the chinese language my collection of
dictionaries and books include several
of these volumes on chinese sayings kong
yu Chun you can be translated as idioms
sayings idiomatic expressions or
proverbs there's thousands of them in
Chinese but most of rather obscure every
language and every culture has these
things I remember phrases like a stitch
in time saves nine you reap what you sow
and god helps those who help themselves
they all have some story behind them or
maybe something that documents the first
use of the saying in China they have a
lot of these phrases they call them
Chung you these Chung you or sayings are
not always but almost always four
characters long in the Chinese language
every character is a single syllable so
in four measly characters four syllables
these Chung you sum up an entire concept
moral or idea to me the most interesting
aspect of these Chinese Chung you is
that a lot of them well most of the ones
i'll introduce anyway have stories
behind them that go back in some cases
to thousands of years ago to China's
oldest dynasties the Shang jochen and
hun when the great Chinese sages like
the Duke of Joe loud sir confucius and
trongsa walked the earth throughout
history and certainly amongst older
folks they've known most all of these
Chung you since their earliest days
growing up if you're a student of
Chinese you could do fine without
knowing any of these Chung you but using
the right one in the right way and if
you could manage to guess so remember
the tones and it really breaks the ice
at parties we have these in all
languages simple phrases that
communicate a whole idea how is that
that's because of the story behind it to
meet your Waterloo
huh well unless you know about Napoleon
in his defeat in 1815 at that historic
town just south of Brussels you'll have
no idea what the same means when you
hear it so it is with these Chinese
idiomatic expressions these Chung you
they all have stories and for nothing
more than your own personal
gratification and enjoyment I have gone
to the trouble to gather together my
trove of Cheong you books many of which
have followed me around the world since
about nineteen eighty and I've
painstakingly gone through each one and
believe it or not actually found about a
year or twos worth of material and I'm
just pulling off the lowest hanging
fruit these episodes will be brief I'm
thinking about 10 minutes or less one
phrase per episode what will you get out
of it well you'll you'll learn a new
Chun you a new Chinese saying and even
if you never studied Mandarin four
syllables baby come on you can do it try
them out on your colleagues your spouse
the cashier at walgreens if you're
fluent in Mandarin and already know
these Chung you well maybe you know the
phrase but you know the story behind the
phrase and why those four characters
that seemingly don't go well together
have so much meaning well even if you
don't use them they're pretty
interesting so consider tuning in each
week for a new episode collect them swap
them trade them there's a little
something for everyone at the Chinese
sayings podcast we're part a teacup
media which means you could get this
podcast as well as the China history
podcast and the China vintage shower
over a teacup dot media more than a
hundred informative and entertaining
hours of Chinese history we give it all
away for nothing if by chance you're a
fan of antiquarian travel literature
from the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries feel free to gorge yourself at
the China vintage our many of these
books I present are from authors
long-forgotten and whose work has been
languishing an online archives and in
library book stacks the world over I'll
be presenting eyewitness accounts from
writers and adventurers who went to
China during the Ching dynasty all at
teacup dot media film laszlo sent you
thanks for checking this out I hope
you'll give this Chinese
sayings podcast a try that it meets with
your general approval this is your
humble creator and presenter la sala
montgomery wishing you all the best all
the time and i hope you enjoy the
chinese sayings podcast